= Voteable Mongo

voteable_mongo allows you to make your Mongoid::Document or MongoMapper::Document objects voteable and tabulate votes count and votes point for you. For instance, in a forum, a user can vote up (or down) on a post or a comment. It's optimized for speed by using only ONE database request per collection to validate, update, and retrieve updated data.

Initial idea based on http://cookbook.mongodb.org/patterns/votes.

Sample app at https://github.com/vinova/simple_qa.

Wonder how fast voteable_mongo is compare to other SQL & MongoDB solutions?
Visit benchmarks at https://github.com/vinova/voteable_benchmarks

== Why voteable_mongo?

There are various solutions for up / down voting problem (1[https://github.com/medihack/make_voteable], 2[https://github.com/brady8/thumbs_up], 3[https://github.com/icaruswings/mm-voteable], 4[https://github.com/jcoene/mongoid_voteable], ...). Most of them using additional votes table (SQL) or votes collection (MongoDB) to store votes and do data tabulation on that votes table or votes collection.

voteable_mongo is different. It takes advantage of document-oriented database to store all related votes data inside voteable document. That has following benefits:

* Don't have to maintain additional votes table or votes collection.

* When voteable document is loaded, all votes data related to it also be loaded, no more additional database requests to see how many votes this document got, who give up votes who give down vote, total vote points, votes count ...

* When vote up, vote down, revote, unvote, voteable_mongo validates vote data, updates voteable document and retrieves updated data using only ONE database request thanks to atomic findAndModify operation.

* Atomic operations on single document warranty data integrity that makes sure if votes created / changed / deleted their associated counters and points will be updated.

So use voteable_mongo for less maintain cost, data integrity and save database requests for other tasks.

== Sites using voteable_mongo
* http://www.naiku.net
* http://www.amorveneris.com
* http://zheye.org

== Installation

=== Rails 3.x

To install the gem, add this to your Gemfile

  gem 'mongoid'
  gem 'voteable_mongo'

After that, remember to run "bundle install"

== Usage

=== Make Post and Comment voteable, User become the voter

== Mongoid
post.rb

    class Post
      include Mongoid::Document
      include Mongo::Voteable

      # set points for each vote
      voteable self, :up => +1, :down => -1

      has_many :comments
    end

comment.rb

    require 'post'

    class Comment
      include Mongoid::Document
      include Mongo::Voteable

      belongs_to :post

      voteable self, :up => +1, :down => -3

      # each vote on a comment can affect votes count and point of the related post as well
      voteable Post, :up => +2, :down => -1
    end

user.rb

    class User
      include Mongoid::Document
      include Mongo::Voter
    end


== MongoMapper
post.rb

    class Post
      include MongoMapper::Document
      include Mongo::Voteable

      # set points for each vote
      voteable self, :up => +1, :down => -1

      many :comments
    end

comment.rb

    require 'post'

    class Comment
      include MongoMapper::Document
      include Mongo::Voteable

      belongs_to :post

      voteable self, :up => +1, :down => -3
      voteable Post, :up => +2, :down => -1
    end

user.rb

    class User
      include MongoMapper::Document
      include Mongo::Voter
    end


=== Make a vote

    @user.vote(@post, :up)

Is equivalent to
    @user.vote(:votee => @post, :value => :up)
    @post.vote(:voter => @user, :value => :up)

In case you don't need to init voter and / or votee objects you can
    @user.vote(:votee_class => Post, :votee_id => post_id, :value => :down)
    @post.vote(:voter_id => user_id, :value => :up)
    Post.vote(:voter_id => user_id, :votee_id => post_id, :value => :up)

=== Undo a vote

    @user.unvote(@comment)

=== If have voter_id, votee_id and vote value you don't need to init voter and votee objects (suitable for API calls)

New vote
    Post.vote(:voter_id => user_id, :votee_id => post_id, :value => :up)

Re-vote
    Post.vote(:voter_id => user_id, :votee_id => post_id, :value => :up, :revote => true)

Un-vote
    Post.vote(:voter_id => user_id, :votee_id => post_id, :value => :up, :unvote => true)

Note: vote function always return updated votee object

=== Get vote_value
    
    @user.vote_value(@post)
    @user.vote_value(:votee_class => Post, :votee_id => post_id)
    @post.vote_value(@user)
    @post.vote_value(user_id)

=== Check if voted?

    @user.voted?(@post)
    @user.voted?(:votee_class => Post, :votee_id => post_id)
    @post.voted_by?(@user)
    @post.voted_by?(user_id)

=== Get votes counts and points

    puts @post.votes_point
    puts @post.votes_count
    puts @post.up_votes_count
    puts @post.down_votes_count

=== Get voters given voted object and voter class

    @post.up_voters(User)
    @post.down_voters(User)
    @post.voters(User)
    - or -
    User.up_voted_for(@post)
    User.down_voted_for(@post)
    User.voted_for(@post)

=== Get the list of voted objects of a class

    Post.voted_by(@user)
    Post.up_voted_by(@user)
    Post.down_voted_by(@user)

== Utilities

=== Set counters and point to 0 for uninitialized voteable objects in order sort and query
Rails
    rake mongo:voteable:init_stats
Ruby
    Mongo::Voteable::Tasks::init_stats

=== Re-generate counters and vote points in case you change :up / :down vote points
Rails
    rake mongo:voteable:remake_stats
Ruby
    Mongo::Voteable::Tasks.remake_stats

=== Migrate from voteable_mongoid version < 0.7.0
Rails
    rake mongo:voteable:migrate_old_votes
Ruby
    Mongo::Voteable::Tasks.migrate_old_votes

== Credits
* Alex Nguyen - Author
* Contributors[https://github.com/vinova/voteable_mongo/contributors]

Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Vinova Pte Ltd

Licensed under the MIT license.
